---
title: Who Even Needs a Website?
subtitle: "& adventures in sitemaking"
date: 2023-05-09 12:00:00 -500
categories: [general]
tags: [introspective, rant]
---

It's a good question.

These days, it seems like everything that you need to make a site is already there. I could've used Medium, Substack, or whatever. I just wanted to do it... "myself" (I used Chirpy and Jekyll, and this is hosted on Github Pages)

Substack is mainly a newsletter-based site, and Medium's useful features are locked behind a paywall... It just doesn't really make that much sense for me to use them right now. But I'm pretty sure in the future I will. I don't want to open them now, since I'll probably just end up having duplicate content.

I'm missing half the features by doing this, like email but y'know... Honestly I just wanted to see if this worked, and it did, so here we are. It's taking most of my power not to look at other Jekyll themes and see if I like them better. But for now, that's a bit of a waste of time. Or even trying to switch to Hugo or Gatsby. 

So, I don't really have a viable reason as of now to set anything else up. Maybe one day, but for now, this is it.

## What'll be on here?
Once, the internet would be full of sites like this. Usually about something random that the author was interested in. These days, I only find sites like that with developers and other online tech-people. This very theme was supposed to be for "technical writing," whatever that means.

I just want to have that little corner of the internet to myself. To ramble on about the things that I like. This site will be mostly in a blog-style, with thoughts, documentation, and random research that I come across. Some of it'll even be about the videos that I make. It'll vary in quality but hey, it is what it is. This theme even comes preloaded with an RSS feed, if... you're stuck in time or something.

Also, in this day of videos and short tweets (don't know about that anymore after the updates) making "longform" documents like this is pretty rare. There are journalists and researchers doing it on the aforementioned sites, but like... I'm not them. Maybe on day. 

I also just really like typing and having somewhere to post it is pretty cool.

Also, if you have no idea what this is or who I am, the [about me]({% link _tabs/about.md %}) exists! how professional. (how did you even get here??)

## Adventures of making this site
Recently I've had a bit of a dilemma. should I go with Chirpy or Minimal Mistakes as a Jekyll theme? The thing is, I already spent a long time researching and watching tutorials on Chirpy and I didn't know if I could edit it to do the things that I wanted it to. It was partially my mistake, and partially the fact that—no offense Chirpy creators—the Chirpy documentation consists of like five pages, whereas the other competitor for my website's theme was Minimal Mistakes, which has... a lot more than five pages of documentation (maybe a little bit *too much.*)

So there, I had a dilemma. should I go with Chirpy or Minimal Mistakes as a Jekyll theme? If you're versed in Jekyll lore (not the novel), you'll see that I have arrived at using Chirpy. No disrespect to Minimal Mistakes; in fact, I spent a day tweaking it and things to make it *look* like Chirpy, just because I loved how many features that Minimal Mistakes had. 

Turns out, I didn't need most of them.

When I realized that I had inadvertently learned Jekyll, and alongside with it, Liquid, I decided to see for myself if I could add the features that I like to Chirpy. It worked! I threw away (metaphorically) the other site that I had been making with Minimal Mistakes. Guess that was one of them.

Now I can once again, as I do, mutate another software past its original concept to my own monstrosity.